If you're looking to grow on Instagram
in 2026, then get in line
[clears throat] because so am I. And in
today's video, I'm going to tell you
exactly how I'm going to achieve that so
you can just steal my strategy and we
can both grow together. By the way, this
video is sponsored by Many Chat. More on
them later. All right, let's start from
the beginning. I've got my phone with me
because I'm going to show you exactly
how I come up with my new strategies. I
do tend to change my approach to
Instagram at least every 6 months
because unfortunately that's how quickly
the platform moves. So annoying, I know,
but this is usually the process that I
go through, right? So, I start by
opening up the gram. Now, I feel like
this is going to be a bit of a jump
scare because I'm about to go into my
professional dashboard and I've not been
posting much recently, so it's not going
to look how I want it to look, but
that's okay. We're going to go into our
professional dashboard because we want
to have a look at our analytics. Now,
something to keep in mind before you
start diving into these numbers is what
are you actually trying to achieve of
your Instagram? This is one of the
biggest mistakes that people make when
they look at their analytics is they
open it up and they're like, I want to
see that my views are up, my
interactions are up, and my followers
are up. Like, you want to be hitting
every single mark, right? You want to be
like an A star student or whatever we
use to grade kids nowadays. It's like
numbers we use to graze kids now, isn't
it? I don't know. I'm so old. Anyway,
you want to be getting tens across the
board. But what we should actually be
looking for is one key metric because
really, we should all be having a core
primary objective to our Instagram
channel. And we should be measuring our
success based on that objective. So for
example, my objective on Instagram for
the past six months has been to grow my
audience because I got into a real rut.
So I want to look at new followers first
because that's the core metric that is
aligned with that objective. If you are
someone who wanted to focus on
engagement, then you want to look at
your interactions first. If you're
someone who was focusing on reach and
awareness, then you want to look at your
views first, right? So try and figure
out the metric that's most important to
you and focus on that one first. So
mine, as I mentioned, was new followers.
So when you open up my new followers
tab, you'll see some topline metrics,
what we're focusing on here when it
comes to our future strategy is our top
content by follows. So I'm going to
click on see all and I'm going to change
the time frame to the last 6 months.
Now, this is actually so funny to look
at because I already know exactly what
my future strategy should be for next
year just simply based on these numbers
that I'm being shown. But what I'm
basically looking at now is the top
posts that help me grow my audience the
most. So, if you clicked on views,
you'll be seeing the content that got
the most views. And if you clicked on
interactions, then you'll be seeing the
content that got the most interactions.
Can you see a bit of a trend with mine?
Because I can. I mean, anytime I've done
a series, my trend report series or my
content to cash series, that has been
the thing that's got me the most amount
of followers. One of my very first trend
reports that I ever did got me 14,000
14,000 followers. And if we click on
this post further, it's going to give us
more analytics. And what I find really
interesting about this is the post at
this point of looking has over 400,000
views. That's a lot of views. That's a
huge amount of views. However, getting
14,000 followers off the back of 400,000
views is actually a huge profile
conversion rate. Should I calculate what
that actually is? That is a conversion
rate of 3.4%. Which means 3.4% of the
people who see that reel go and follow
me. And that's actually really, really
healthy. So, all of that to say that
there's a clear pattern as to what
content is performing well for me at the
moment. And this is the information that
I've kept in mind when it comes to
formulating my strategy for 2026. Now,
what I'm also going to do is something
that a lot of people don't tend to know
about is I'm actually going to reverse
it and see the content that performed
the worst when it came to growing my
audience. So, in order for me to do
that, I'm going to filter this by reals
last 6 months and then I'm going to sort
by lowest. Okay, there we go. The reason
why I had to filter it by reals is
because otherwise you're going to see a
bunch of stories appearing because
stories don't usually get you follows.
So therefore, that's going to be the
first content that's going to appear
when it comes to which content did not
get you follows. Do you see what I'm
saying? So here you can see the content
that actually did not do the best for
me. The first three that have popped up
are actually trial reels. So keep in
mind that that's going to appear as
well. Also, we do have some reels in
there that are super super new. So, you
know, when it comes to those, I'm
probably just going to give it the
benefit of the doubt and assume that it
needs some time for the content to
perform better. And as you scroll,
you'll start to notice which content is
getting you follows and which isn't.
Now, what I find really useful about
this is because I'm filtering it based
on the last six months, all of this
content reflects my new content style.
So, it's actually quite interesting to
see which content isn't performing well,
even though it's in this new style that
has traditionally performed quite well
for me. And what I'm learning from this
is a few things. First of all, it's
heavily dependent on the topic. So,
whenever I'm uploading a piece of
content which is about launching a
business or about like a stat of the
industry, it doesn't seem to land as
well as my highly educational content.
Right? In addition to this, even though
a lot of these clips are in the new
style, the angles aren't quite as
diverse as I would like them. Oh, I just
realized I forgot to put my light up.
I'm going to put my light on in the
background. One minute.
[snorts] Was that necessary? I don't
know. You tell me. Yeah, I'm basically
just noticing that actually the style of
my content in terms of switching the
scenes and the angles super frequently
is a huge reason why some content
performs well in terms of follows and
some don't. So this is all interesting
information that I will keep a note of
and I will use to inform my strategy. So
let's talk about the foundations of my
strategy and hopefully your strategy
too. My main objective for 2026 is
growth. I have set myself a bag which is
a big hairy audacious goal and that goal
is to reach 200,000 followers by the end
of next year. That is quite a big goal
for me because before this year I was
growing by 5 to 10,000 followers a year.
This year I gained just over 25,000
which is amazing. But it does require me
to really keep that momentum going that
I've already struggled to continue even
since my very recent growth spurt. Now,
when it comes to the strategy itself, I
like to be able to summarize it in one
line. Now, my strategy is to share three
high-value, high production reels per
week and one either highly opinionated
or behind the scenes carousel per week
on my Instagram for the first 3 months
of 2026. Now, let me break that down
because that probably just sounds like
an absolute word salad. The first thing
to know about that strategy is that I
mentioned posting three ress and one
carousel. Now, in order for you to have
a strong Instagram strategy, you too
need to define which formats you want to
be sharing on Instagram every week and
how much content you want to be sharing
in that format. I have decided to do
three reals because reals have been a
cord growth driver for me so far. And
the objective for 2026 is to grow,
right? If your objective is to increase
your engagement, you might actually want
to focus on carousels because those are
better for interactions and for reaching
your existing audience. So just think
about that when you're picking your
desired format. In addition to three
reels, I did specify one carousel per
week as well. That's because whilst I do
want to grow my audience, I still want
to have a balance of kind of engagement
content so that the people who I'm
welcoming into my audience actually get
to know me and I'm nurturing them. This
is a really important and slightly more
advanced thing to do with your
Instagram, which is to focus on content
that's achieving a few different things
rather than focusing on just the one
type. For me, in order for me to do that
nurture content, I know that I either
need to share something that is highly
opinionated. So, this is something where
it's like a hot take and it really helps
people understand who I am and what I
stand for or something that's quite
personal and behind the scenes because
again, then I'm bringing people into my
world and I'm helping them get to know
me, right? On the flip side, my reals
have got to be high value, high
production, which makes me nervous
because both of those things take a lot
of time to achieve. But that has been
what's performing well for me on my
Instagram. And this is why it's so
important to do the audit first. Because
you might hear this and think, I don't
want to do any of that stuff. I don't
want to do high value, high production
ress. But if you do your audit, you
might realize that you don't need to do
that. Like there are so many creators
out there, even in the same niche as me,
who do the opposite style of content
where it's really raw and there's not
much editing or anything at all, but
that content does really well for them.
Do you know what I mean? It just depends
what works for you and your audience.
For me, it needs to be high production,
which means I need to be filming on some
great kit, probably my Osmo Pocket. I
need to be experimenting with my angles.
I need to be switching scenes between
every point to keep the pacing up. And I
need to be doing some incredible
editing, of course, with the help of my
editor to ensure that the end result is
super high production and polished. Now,
the high value part means that each of
my reals need to be the most valuable
things you have ever seen in your life.
[laughter]
Now, the value that I tend to share
through my content is educational value,
right? I tend to teach something. I
often have a bit of a block when it
comes to creating educational content on
Instagram. And I think it's because I
create so much long- form content on
here that sometimes when it gets to
sharing content for Instagram, I'm like,
haven't I said this already? Doesn't
everyone already know this? So, I end up
not sharing information that's super
valuable cuz I think everyone's bored of
it. And then I'll see someone else post
it and be like, oh, that's still really
useful and I should have spoken about
it. So, not only do I need to push past
that block, but I also need to ensure
that the value that I'm sharing in my
content is copyable. That's not a word.
What's the word I'm looking for?
Basically, I want people to be able to
like copy and paste something for my
content. So, content that's done really
well for me in the past is this one. And
it's where I talk about how you could
pitch to brands. And halfway through
this piece of content, I share an actual
script for pitching to brands. And I
think that's part of the reason why the
content performed so well because it was
like, "Oh, pause. Screenshot that pitch
deck and I'm just going to use it for
later." That's the level of value that
I'm trying to provide here. Not just
like, "Oh, that's interesting. I learned
something." But like, I need to go take
action off the back of this real. It
makes me nervous cuz I'm like, "How am I
going to do that three times a week?"
But I'm really going to try. So, that's
my overall strategy, right? We know what
my goal is. We know how often I'm
posting. We know which formats I'm
posting. And we know roughly what I want
to be posting about. The next step is
actually to talk about the tactics. So
these are the smaller things that you do
which help you reach your goal. And I
cannot talk about tactics without
talking about Many Chat. Now out of all
of the tactics that I've used for the
past 6 months to grow, Many Chat has
been the one that's probably made the
biggest difference to the health of my
channel. Like I'm not even overstating
that. If you're not familiar with my
Instagram content already, then you
might not know that in at least 50% of
the posts that I share, I will include a
call to action such as comment the word
pitch for a link to my pitch templates.
And as a result of people commenting the
word pitch, they will get sent a DM
automatically from me with a link to
purchase my pitch templates. The reason
why I do that under so much of my
content is because it massively
increases my engagement cuz I end up
getting a lot of comments, but also it
allows me to provide further value
outside of Instagram to my audience.
You've probably heard me share that
tactic before, but hold up because
there's a new tactic in town. Many chat
have officially launched their follow to
DM feature after announcing it at their
virtual Instagram summit. This feature
essentially allows you to automatically
DM people who are following you. Now,
this is major because it allows you to
connect with people when they're the
most engaged. So, when they've seen your
content, they love your content, they've
followed you, it now allows you to
connect with them by sending them an
automated message straight away. Now,
something you might not know about me
and my previous tactics is that I've
been known to send messages to new
followers every now and again.
Obviously, I've not been able to keep up
with it over the years, but whenever I
have done it, it's always been super
wellreceived. So, the fact that we're
now able to do that at scale is
incredible. So, you can use it to
welcome new followers, to introduce
yourself, to share resources, or to find
out what they're interested in, which is
super valuable for topic research. Now,
it only works for new followers, and it
doesn't re-trigger if someone unfollows
you and then follows you again. So, you
don't have to worry about that. If you
want my advice, I think this is going to
be best used to share a hyper relevant
freebie with your new followers. I might
actually take it one step further and
use it as a way to segment my audience.
So, I would essentially ask people what
they're interested in. I'll use their
answer to tag them so I can clearly see
who from my audience is interested in
which topic and then I can follow up
with a highly targeted freebie for my
new follower. That way they can get some
value from me. They can join my mailing
list and hopefully it will deepen and
strengthen my relationship with them.
Feel free to steal that strategy. Head
to the link in my description for 30
days of Many Chat Pro so you can try it
for yourself. Okay, let's talk about the
tactics. This is personally one of my
favorite parts but also the part that a
lot of people forget about. So let's
just do a recap, right? Cuz at the top
of your strategy, you need a goal. You
need clearly to understand what you're
trying to achieve and by when. Under
that, you have your strategy. This is
your oneliner when you talk about what
you're going to share and when you're
going to share it. Underneath that are
the tactics. These are the small but
mighty things that you do that really
drive your Instagram channel and that
help you see success. Without tactics,
you are not going to get the most out of
your strategy. Okay? So, make sure you
have some of your own. Let's talk about
the ones that I'm going to be using. Of
course, I'm going to be using the many
chat tactic that I just spoke about. So,
that strategy that I just shared when it
came to welcoming new followers using
their new feature, I'm also going to use
their auto DM feature where people
comment under a post and get sent a link
automatically. The next tactic I'm
calling the five rule. I just made it
up. Do you like it? The idea is that I
have a rule of five when it comes to my
hooks. Now, we all know how important
hooks are, especially for your reels. In
fact, I have a whole video just
dedicated to that subject. I'll link to
it up here. The five five rule is
essentially forcing me to think about
five different elements that appear on
the screen within the first 5 seconds of
my reels. So these elements could
include a graphic, a photo, some text. I
just want to have five different things
happening on the screen within the first
5 seconds of my reels. It might even be
that I've got text appearing on the
screen, but they're in two different
fonts. So I'd count that as two. Do you
see what I mean? It's basically a rough
guide that's going to force me to ensure
that the first 5 seconds of my videos
are as visually engaging and hooky as
possible. Another tactic I'm going to do
is weekly trend downloads for me to use
when I create my content. Now, this is
new. Previously, I have tasked one of my
team members to do these monthly trend
downloads for me where she basically
scour Instagram and shows me what's
working, what's not working, and where
there are any content gaps within my
niche. And she's so good at those. I'm
thinking of upping the frequency of
these to one every single week rather
than one a month, just to ensure that
I've got my ear to the ground and I'm
really paying attention to what's
working. A final tactic that I'm going
to use is to do with typography, which I
kind of mentioned before. That's the
different fonts that appear on the
screen. I want to get really creative
with this. And again, the caveat that I
have an editor who I work with. So, when
I say I, I really mean we, right? I want
to really nail this with my editor. I
want to be mixing up the fonts for the
captions on my reals regularly and
intentionally, like picking a specific
font because it relates to the thing
that I've said. Do you know what I mean?
Like, I really want to take it to that
point. And that's my Instagram strategy
for 2026. Don't forget that if you want
to use ManyHat's brand new feature where
you can automatically DM new followers,
you can get 30 days of ManyHat Pro by
visiting the link in my description. If
you feel like hanging around, I do
recommend watching this video. I
mentioned it previously, but it's
essentially my deep dive of hooks. This
is the video to watch if you are trying
to level up your hooks on Instagram next
year. I know I'm probably just saying
that cuz it's my own content, but I'm
telling you, it's good. Thanks so much
for watching. I will see you in the next
one.